Sample Questions

Sub: UNIX & SHELL PROGRAMMING

Q-1 Short Questions.

1. List out functions of kernel. pg 19,20

2. Explain the purpose of super block.

-> The purpose of a superblock is to store important information about a file system, such as its type, size, status, and other metadata structures. A superblock is essential for mounting and accessing a file system, as it tells the operating system how to read and write data on it. A superblock also helps to recover a file system in case of corruption or damage, by providing backup copies of itself in different locations.

3. What is the purpose of /bin directory of Unix file system?

-> The /bin directory in the Unix file system contains essential user binaries (programs) that must be present when the system is mounted in single-user mode . It contains executable files, Linux commands that are used in single-user mode, and common commands that are used by all users, such as cat, cp, cd, and ls . The /bin directory also contains several useful commands that are of use to both the system administrator as well as non-privileged users

4. Explain-u-n.-r options of sort.

-> -u: This option is used to remove duplicate lines from the output. If there are multiple lines that are identical, only one copy of the line will be printed .
 -n: This option is used to sort the file numerically. It is used when we want to sort a file with numeric data present inside .
 -r: This option is used to sort the input file in reverse order i.e. descending order by default .

5. Define redirection. List out the symbols used for redirection. pg 11

6. What is a daemon process? How a daemon process can be killed?

7. What will be the file and directory permission when the command umask 777 is used?

-> When the command umask 777 is used, it means that the default permissions for newly created files and directories will have all permissions removed for the owner, group, and others.

8. Explain the use of tee command.

-> The tee command in Linux is used to read standard input and write it to both standard output and one or more files. It is named after the T-splitter used in plumbing, which breaks the output of a program so that it can be both displayed and saved in a file .

9. Differentiate between while and until loop.

-> The main difference between while and until loop is that they have opposite conditions for executing the loop body. A while loop executes the loop body as long as the condition is true, and stops when it is false. An until loop executes the loop body as long as the condition is false, and stops when it is true.

10. What will be the output of the command (ls-1; who) > myfile.txt?

11. What is the difference between scheduling processes using batch command and using at command

->

 The at command executes commands at a specified time, while the batch command executes commands when the system load is low

 The at command allows you to specify the exact date and time for running a command or a
  script, either in absolute or relative terms

12. What information contain by $? And S# variable? 

13. What happen when ed command is run without arguments?

14. What does /etc/passwd contains?

15. What do you mean by a daemon? List out them. How will you kill a daemon?

16. What the -r option of rm command will do?

17. What command Is-a do?

18. Explain the purpose of super block.

19. What is exit status of a command?

20. What is the purpose of /bin directory of UNIX file system?

mpzLearn a daemon? List out them. 21.6. What do you mean by a daemon? I

22. What do you mean by sticky bit?

23. Explain the use of tee command.

24. Explain following commands: IS, KILL, Unmask


Q-2. Long Questions

1. Explain while loop with examples.

2. Explain pipes in UNIX with example.

3. Explain append and change commands of sed utility.

4. Explain any two communication commands.

5. Explain at and batch commands.

6. Explain find command.

7. Write a shell script to check whether entered file exists or not. 8. Write a shell script to check whether entered file readable or not.

9. Explain sed command with its subcommands.

10. What is a link How to create soft link and hard link?

11. Explain positional parameters of the shell.

12. Explain command line interpretation of the shell.

13. Write a shell script that accept two decimal numbers from keyboard and display their sum in octal from. Make proper validation.

14. Write a shell script to test the file is a executable file or not.

15. Write note on grep utility.

16. Explain commands for changing file permissions and ownership

17. Explain expr command giving example for string manipulation.

18. Write a shell script to reverse a number.

19. Write a shell script to enter 10 records in a file

20. Explain features of Unix Operating System.

21. Explain the directory structure of UNIX OS

22. The booting process of UNIX with init process

23. Explain features of Shell.

24.Explain content of I-node block 

25. Explain the modes of vi editor.

26. Write a note on functions of shell.

28. What is the purpose of boot block? What it consist of?

27. Write detail store on is command with options and example.


Q-3. Write commands for following

1. To count number of words in line 40 thought 60 of file txt. 1

2. Write a command to sort a line of file and also remove a repeated line.

3. To display number of processes.

4. Write a command to print first seven line of file.

5. Replace 'kernel' with 'kernel architecture using remember pattern of sed utility.

6. To count number of characters in last line of line xl.


Q-4. Write command using sed or grep for the following.

1. Write a command to replace 'UIX KERNEL' on line no 10 to 20.

2. Display all blank lines between line 20 and 30 of file test.txt.

3. To list file names consist of only 4 digits.

4. Display the lines that do not contain "Unix"

5. Display the lines which are not starting with 2 at the beginning.

6. Display lines beginning either with alphabet or digit from file test.txt.

R

7. Write a command to display all file name containing only digits in a filename.

8. Display two lines starting from 4th line of file test.txt.

9. To display lines beginning with alphabets of a file test.txt.

10. To count number of words in line 10 thought 20 of file test.txt.
